# Lion Tracking and Novelty Search

The Lion Tracker’s Guide to Life is a book I feel deeply connected with. While much of the book’s captivation comes from the enchanting story-telling of the author Boyd Varty, the life lesson elucidated in the book resonates with me even more so. Born and raised in the wild bush of South Africa by a pair of unconventional parents who operated a game reserve, Boyd Varty thought of his destiny to continue the family mission and preserve nature until realizing the healing of the land had to start from the healing of people. With his later experience as an apprentice traveling across North America, learning the craft of coaching and healing while entrenched in a wide array of human emotions, he started to see how most of the pressing struggles can be eased by looking up to nature. The Lion Tracker’s Guide was his first attempt in the book format to address the question of self-discovery through the lens of nature.

In the book, Varty draws a seamless parallel between the ancient arts of lion tracking and the modern endeavor of seeking fulfillment. Lion tracking started with the roar of the lion. You know there is a lion out there waiting to be discovered, but you don’t know where it actually is. Tracks are the clues left by the animal. No matter where it leads, a tracker always starts with the first track and finds the path one track at a time. What tells a good tracker apart is how in tune he is with the story a track and its surrounding are trying to tell. Similarly, in life, most of the goals we set for ourselves are intended to bring us to a place of fulfillment and happiness. We are motivated by these abstract ideals but don’t know what that destination actually looks like and how to get there. But life leaves clues. Just like a lion tracker should seek guidance from the tracks, human beings can seek guidance from our unfiltered feelings and emotions. Tracking life is about peeling off layers of feelings and emotions, understanding what was driving our initial reactions, and using that as the guiding compass for the next step. Yet, in reality, most of these clues get dismissed because they don’t make sense right away. People follow the rules of society rather than clues of their lives to make decisions, only later realize they have been long lost in their search for truth.

Interestingly, two computer scientists look at this problem from a completely different angle only to reach the same conclusion. In their book, Greatness Cannot Be Planned, Joe Lehman and Kenneth Stanley, two AI experts, discuss why an object-oriented optimization algorithm can sometimes fail to generate the best outcome when designing a searching algorithm. They discovered that such an algorithm lacks the ability to recognize the value of various stepping stones, which are events that have no direct link with the final goal at that particular moment but become instrumental at a later stage. Instead, when they try optimizing for ‘novelty’ rather than the direct goal, the algorithm sometimes ends up producing amazing unintended results.

However, the problem comes when they try to adapt this at the society level for policy design. Most of our policies these days, either when running a company or a government, are driven by objectives encompassing strategies, plans, consensus, and metrics. While we now know that most of these lead to compromising outcomes, is novelty search the answer then? Novelty searching shines because of its randomness. There is no template to follow and no wisdom to pass on by definition. This nature makes novelty search impossible to apply at an organization level when scaling is needed. An exemplar of a novelty search-based outcome might be the birth of human sapiens. Whatever grand achievements we have achieved as human beings, none would happen without the randomness of nature: we come from gene mutation and natural selection. So much of what contributes to this five-million-year journey that defines our difference from other apes is not just impossible to replicate but even to explain.

The final solution offered by the book falls back at the individual level. What cannot be coined into a policy is human intuitions. While society may not scale novelty reliably, we can hopefully move in that direction one individual at a time. The book closes out recommending the audience to be the treasury hunter of their lives, in essence, being less fixated on a specific goal and plan and allowing the curiosity to guide the paths.

It is remarkable to see how Boyd Joe and Kenneth travel from two ends of the world only to reach the same conclusion. Either from the lens of lion-tracking, an ancient art form finding its root in the hunter-gather age, or the lens of searching algorithms power boosted through AI research at the very cutting edge of our modern society, what the books ultimately tell us is that we all have more wisdom inside us than we realize. ‘Even though I don’t know where I want to go, I know how to get there.’  Tune in to our inner voices, and we shall discover wonders.
