# Goals

We fail on ambitious goals because we don’t plan correctly. Without a concrete plan, it is easy to default to the status quo to do nothing. When the goal is abstract, it is hard to plan. So breaking down an abstract goal into concrete goals is critical.

To do that, you need to first understand what exactly you are trying to achieve. What does success look like? Some hikers have to make it to the summit to call it a success. Some are happy enough with a “false summit” with a great view. So first and foremost, define what success in that goal looks like to you.

Sometimes, an ambitious goal is a portfolio of goals. And you need to know what that portfolio looks like. One way to gain clarity into the portfolio is to study the work you aspire to produce. If you want to be a great writer, study influential writings and dissect what makes them enduring.
Once you understand what your goal looks like, you can start mapping out the ingredients required to achieve them. Compare that list to what you have already got and identify where the gaps are. 

Very often, at this point, you will realize that you are not too far away from your goal. But other times, the gaps can be broad and humongous. The good news is that you don’t have to fill all of them. Some improvements bring higher leveraged gains, meaning they will benefit you more with the same amount of effort. So focus on those low-hanging fruits as your starting goals.

Now it is time to make plans for those concrete goals. What are the actions you need to take to achieve them? Most of the time, they are related to learning. The best way to learn is through practice, i.e., active learning. Active learning is output-driven and more measurable. If you want to learn guitar, you can watch a thousand videos that teach you how to play guitar, but you cannot learn it until you start playing yourself. Even though you may not feel ready at this point, you have to push yourself to do it. The truth is, you will never feel ready. But done is better than perfect. A large part of the growth mindset is to realize who you are today does not have to be who you are tomorrow. So feel no shame about your crappy work today because you know you can only do better tomorrow.

