# Navigate Life

Why do people with good grades not necessarily score high in the real world? The answer is simple. Navigating the real world requires a different set of skills from navigating school. One of these skills is one’s ability to think.

First, you need to think for yourself. Thinking for yourself requires knowing who you are and what you want in life. Some people figure this out in an intense way, while some more gradually. Some people experience this earlier in life while others later. Either way, it is a phase one must go through to understand his purpose, values, and guiding principles.

The well-regarded Broadway show Dear Evan Hanson tells an intense version of the story. It is theatrical hence intense, but still realistic to resonate with its audience. When I watched it, I was deeply moved by the last scene when Evan finally had the courage to meet with Zoe again in the apple chard. While a large part of the courage comes from owning his mistake, another chunk comes from his reconciliation with himself. The scene, to me, symbolizes his growth from an intimidated boy who needs others’ attention to see his worth to a confident man who respects himself for who he is. I could only imagine Evan going out and doing great things in his life after such a tumultuous teenage life. Few things should stop him from staying true because he knows the cost of trying to be someone else all too well.

But one also needs to know how to think well in order to succeed in real life. More specifically, one needs to think strategically. Strategic thinking is figuring out direction in the dark. It is about knowing where to go when there is no clear instruction and finding a way to get there without a map. Strategic thinking is very different from the type of thinking needed at school, which is more linear and clear-cut. When you are at school, you are handed a concrete curriculum and assigned with instructors. All you need to do is to follow the manual and implement. People who do well in school usually have a strong ability to execute. Executing well, however, does not equal thinking well. You are not entitled to any curriculum or instructors in the real world. You have to craft your own curriculum and look for your own sponsors.

Strategic thinking comes down to decision-making. When you don’t know the direction and don’t have a map, you have to explore and iterate to find the optimal next step. Often you don’t have unlimited time and energy to explore and iterate. So you need to allocate your resource wisely. A good strategic thinker has a good framework for making decisions. They will set priorities and weigh different options before taking action. They will evaluate the impacts through different horizons, both short and long. And they will also use the outcome of their decisions as feedback to reiterate.

Life is a journey. To navigate life, you need guidance and directions. You should be guided by your own purpose and values. Go for what you want, not what others want for you. But you also want to get there before your time runs out. Good thinking is your company to map out your steps.
