# Language

Recently I have been thinking about the role language plays in our thinking. Language is not just a way to express our thoughts, but it also shapes our thinking.

I realize a big part of why I like writing is how much it helps me think more clearly. When I try to think in my head, my thoughts can go in all directions. I get distracted by different ideas and find it hard to pin down any theme or pattern. Writing forces me to stay on the subject. 

There is a cost, though. As K rightfully pointed out, we cannot express all of our thoughts in the format of language, so writing can be limitive sometimes. A balanced approach is needed, and the focus should be on why. Why do you write? Do you write to create? Or do you write to analyze? If you want to create a story, it is probably better to play with the idea in your head and explore it by visualizing and feeling it. In the case of analyzing your thoughts, writing them down can still be quite helpful as you can frame them and see the pattern more easily this way.

In the latter case, as the articulation of the thoughts serves as the inputs for pattern recognition, how expressive you are can sometimes determine how clearly you think. I found it hard to think in English when I first came to the US. Back then, I had very limited vocabulary, and it was hard to map and frame my thinking in the English language. Up till today, I still find it hard to explain some of the knowledge I learned back in China through English, such as the college-level biology curriculum I went through in high school. I simply did not have the proper vocabulary base to support any fluid thinking.

That’s also why people speaking different languages may think in different ways. There are words that one language has, but the other does not. One example is the study on color. Research shows that how we view color can be dependent on the language we speak. Greek has more vocabulary to describe different hues of blue, and as a result, Greek can differentiate different shades of blue better. Some tribal languages use simple words such as ‘dark’ and ‘light’ to describe color, and their people simply experience the world through a much less colorful lens.

This also got me thinking about the differences in our behaviors. In western culture, a lot of actions are black and white. You are either right or not. On the other hand, Chinese people like to navigate the so-called ‘grey area.’ Just like how the Chinese have been dealing with Russia, Unlike western countries, which unanimously called out Putin as a war criminal and imposed different levels of sanctions, the Chinese, once again, while condemning the inhumanity of the war, ramped up the oil import from Russia at the same time. The ambiguity of China in its policy stand can be frustrating for western countries, as they find it hard to comprehend their thinking and predict their next moves. This lack of understanding further reinforces the distrust and alienation. The difference is probably fundamental. The Chinese are able to think in a more nuanced and granular way, likely because there are simply more words and phrases to differentiate different actions. Just like French has more adjectives and probably incubates more artists that way, I am guessing Chinese probably has more verbs and is able to support a much more detailed spectrum of actions.

Language can play a key role in our thinking, and writing is a critical vehicle for translating our abstract feelings and thoughts into messages that can be shared and conveyed. If you aspire to think better, write more.
