# Investing

I have a love and hate relationship with macro investing. It forces me to grab a front seat of macro events and helps me build a better understanding of the world by trying to make sense of these events. Yet, in the meantime, it can be painful sometimes to follow headlines up close and watch them unfold in slow motion without knowing what the end game looks like.
I am an emotional person, but investing does not need emotions. I probably should stay away from investing by nature. Right or wrong, I am where I am, and I work very hard not to let my emotions get in the way of my work. One of the strategies I develop is to stay away from the newspaper and only get my news inputs from sell-side reports and Bloomberg, which provides mostly statistics with plain writing. In contrast, newspapers like to emphasize sensational stories to grab the audience's attention and can be opinionated from time to time.
While I try to stay away from the mass media as much as I can, there are times I fail to control myself, which is what happened with the latest Russian Invasion. I let myself get sucked into a news whirlpool, and I can see my emotion simmering. Among all the stories and pictures I came across yesterday, my head keeps going back to the picture of a Ukrainian dad taking pictures of his family at the border when he sent off his family to Poland. The dad had to stay because the Ukrainian government announced all men from the age of 18 to 60 had to stay in the country yesterday. The center point of the picture is the little son. He sat happily on his little red suitcase, wearing a big innocent smile on his round puffy face shaped by the hood covering his head, staring happily into his dad's iPhone camera and having no idea that this might be the last time he saw his dad. The picture was taken from the back angle of the dad, so I could not see what the man's face looked like at that moment. It probably does not matter either. There is no way I can imagine the pain the dad and the rest of the families must be feeling at that moment.

Repeating these stories in my head is clearly not the right action to be a responsible investor for my clients, and I will have to pull myself out of this emotional spiral. However, the more I progress on this track and witness how my less emotional colleagues navigate life, the more I appreciate this side of me. Emotions give me empathy and make me humble and humane. Emotions enrich my life by making every experience colorful and vibrant. Emotions help me connect with people from all classes of life. I just need to control it when I am wearing an investor's hat, and I can unleash it through my creative work.
