# Writing

It can be disorienting when you try to juggle multiple projects simultaneously. The struggle is especially true when all the projects are important, and you want them to go well.

In my case, what I struggle to balance right now is my work and writing. My past life, in many ways, was centered around a career in finance. I gave up many things to develop my career in the past. Making a choice when conflicts arose between work and something else was easier back then: almost all the time, I chose my work. But more and more, I realize I don’t want to be defined by my current work.

Writing is a new journey I embarked on last year. I dismissed writing in the past when I labeled my core competency as analytical skills. However, as I start to lean into my artistic side and honor my desire to create, writing gets woven into the process in an empowering way. It grounds my thoughts while unleashing my creative energy. This discovery of writing injects a completely new level of energy into me to develop my writing skills. While I saw it as important in the past, primarily career-wise, I realize I need it to live a fulfilling life.

As I spend more time writing, I am spending less time working as an investor, by default. Working as an investor is demanding, not only in terms of the volume of hours needed but also in the thinking required behind each decision. Great investors don’t just think about the market nine to five from Monday to Friday. They think about their strategies day and night every day. In a way, this is true for everyone who becomes an expert in a domain: they live and breathe their craft every minute of their lives.

For me, rather than spending the time outside the regular hours analyzing the market, I choose to spend it on writing. Instead of focusing my writing on financial markets, I write about life. Writing about life is meditative to me. It brings the same level of calmness as walking in nature. When I write, my heart sings.

A lot of people these days have side hustles outside their day job. Those who experience fewer challenges when navigating the maze either have an easier job or a job they don’t care about. I actually like what I do for a living. That’s what makes prioritizing hard. Even so, deep inside me, my heart tells me this is the right thing to do. Also, if I can find more synergy between the two, it will get easier over time.

By making this choice of splitting my energy between my current work and writing, I am consciously shaping my life in a different direction. I don’t know where the path will lead me to, but I am excited about this pursuit.
