# Opinions

Opinions are cheap. Anyone can have an opinion, but few people spend time doing the work before forming an opinion. The most ignorant people can also be the most opinionated. Unfortunately, opinions drive behaviors, and ill-founded opinions often lead to problematic behaviors.

Russia is waging war against Ukraine, and much of that comes down to one person's opinion. Opinion, in this case, translates to outcomes in a magnifying way because the opinion is centralized. In a way, power centralization comes down to opinion centralization: when opinion is centralized and enforced from top to bottom, one person's opinion, right or wrong, becomes the reality of millions.

Having an infrastructure for checks and balances is important. However, simply decentralizing opinions and hoping for consensus may not be the right answer either. A decentralized system is prone to noise when goals are not aligned for various stakeholders. That's why Europe always has a hard time taking stock of global affairs. How can you expect Europeans to easily form a united front when Germans would suffer economic consequences disproportionally by cutting ties with Russians? While similar in many ways, European countries are different in even more ways. The differences in their history, culture, and development priorities put them on very different grounds when judging the situation and taking a stance.

A decentralized process, in principle, should work when all parties share the same vision. In the simple case of solving a puzzle, when everyone strives for the same outcome, the solution can usually be reached faster with more people's participation. Even though the increasing number of people will bring increasing types of opinions and more disagreement, more pairs of eyes should also cover more ground on the flip side. This broader coverage of the ground, coupled with a consensus view governed by the rule of a large number, should, in theory, brings out the truth faster and lead to a better outcome.
 
In this regard, it is vital to cultivate a culture where people have the mindset to seek truth and have the skills to form opinions based on truth. So much of what we believe these days is predicated on opinions rather than facts. We rely on second-hand information for judgment rather than going to the source. We follow what others think is right rather than trying to form our own convictions. Herding is encouraged from an evolution perspective as it mitigates risk in a hunter-gatherer lifestyle. As a result, taking a step back from the crowds and working on building one's conviction requires us not to be just aware of our natural tendency but make intentional efforts to counteract it.

This is not an easy switch, and it has been difficult for different reasons through time. It was challenging in the past when we did not have easy access to the information, and collecting information required a tremendous amount of leg work. Modern technology solved this problem but brought out a different one: we have too much information rather than too little, and we struggle to tell which matters and even which is true. So instead of asking how to collect information, we need to ask why. We need to keep our end goal in mind when scouting the field to avoid getting lost in the mountains of inputs. For content consumers, that means focusing on drawing connections and synthesizing inputs. For content producers, that means focusing on providing curated content with an easy-to-follow storyline and actionable conclusion as a way to add value.
