# Possessions

It is easy to dismiss foundational things you already have: health, family, people who support you no matter what. They are the grounds you build your life on. But you don’t get reminded of them often, not like the other one thousand desires you have that float in the sky. You only think of them when you start to lose them.
We have very asymmetric relationships with our possessions. It seems that we can never measure their values correctly. We desire new shining things in our lives. When we don’t have them, they seem like the best things in the world. And we strive very hard to chase them, often at the cost of things we already have or could have more effortlessly, that sound boring and look trivial at that point. The journey of chasing can be a long process. And most of us are not enjoying the process either and are solely driven by the rewards. But the sad truth is, even when we eventually get those things, the joy only lasts for a short moment. Before we know it, we start feeling unsatisfied again and need a new target to shoot.

Our brains are irrational. We weigh things primarily based on how frequently we think of them. So when we think about certain things a lot, they become critical. And when we stop thinking about them, we appear to need them less. That’s also why our possessions never seem enough. Because once those desires become a reality in the form of things we don’t have to worry about, they also become less important to us.

And one way for those forgotten to become important again is when we start losing them, or more precisely when we recognize we are losing them. Decay will happen inevitably, no matter what. But very often, we don’t get to experience this daily. We realize the deterioration only when it amounts to a certain point. Then, when the fear of loss kicks in, things that we forget, deem as nonimportant and use in many ways to trade for other things become extremely important again.

That’s why humans suffer. We spend a lot of our time suffering from wanting and chasing things we don’t have. But, in the end, we also have to suffer from the fear of losing them. We should manage our expectations and try not to control things we cannot control. But more importantly, we should also stop overlooking the phase in between - the stage that is about living a good life.
