## Autheticity

The most successful people are those who can be themselves. Authenticity helps build grit. Authenticity supports a strong network.

To know what you want, you need authenticity. Work is work when you do it because you should. Work is no longer work when you do it because you love to. Whichever area you work, hours of practice are needed to achieve mastery. But it would be much easier to preserve when you are enjoying those hours. People who go out and do hard things are not that different from most of us. They don't necessarily have more willpower or strength. They appear to have more grit only because they do things that heal them rather than drain them. To find that thing you can genuinely connect with, you need authenticity.

Authenticity helps us connect with people. Think about those who we love, adore, admire. Are they perfect? Do you love them because they are superhuman? No. Most of the time, we connect with those who we trust. We trust them because we feel that we know them. So to build relationships, you have to allow people in and let them see you and know you. Not just personal relationships require such authenticity. Business relationships too. Even though the stereotypical workplace relationships are professional and outcome-oriented, authentic people are unanimously appreciated. But it takes courage and humility to let out our true selves. Being authentic puts you in a vulnerable place where you will likely get judged and criticized. So most of us choose the safer route and pretend to be someone that is smarter, kinder, and better-behaved overall. But how can you persuade others to trust you if you cannot even accept yourself? That's why those authentic beings end up gaining support, influencing others, and winning the world.
