# Reading

I have discovered so much joy in reading recently. This time, instead of letting my brain drive the choice and focusing only on the subjects directly applicable to my work, I render the decision to my mind and allow myself to dive into whatever subject that kindles my curiosity, no matter how irrelevant and seemingly useless the subject sounds.

Exploring books is like exploring the world. When traveling on foot, the experience that brings the greatest joy is hardly the well-planned trip where you map out and cross out each recommended must-visit spot, but the expedition into a pristine land where the landscape is uninterrupted and the secrets are yet to be revealed. Similarly, when traveling in books, the invigorating elation rarely springs from going through a standard reading list or New York best selling books, but from the unexpected encounters with books that are less heard and talked about, telling stories either from the past or afar. 

Like the jarring sensation you get when visiting an sacred site in person, where you find trace of history on the remains of the stone wall, on the scrubbed lithograph, and on the broken sculpture, you find the same dazzling stir when entering a newly-found wonderland through books, where you live through the experience of a expanse of characters and immerse in a unbounded land where a unicorn can fly in the pink sky.

As I appreciate the language more, I also start to understand better the nuisance in writing and experience each scene with more intensity. That elevates my reading experience to a whole different level, and the increasing satisfaction further pulls me into reading. I feel refreshed and revived. I feel a corner of my heart lightens up.

They say that your body knows what is right and what is wrong before your brain knows. When I allow myself to read and explore, my whole body is at ease. I feel light as a feather and ready to float, but also grounded, centered and in peace. This is different from how I feel at work. Even though I still get excited about new projects, but the energy is usually mixed with stress and does not last long. More often when Sunday night strikes and it’s time for me to plan my trip back to the office, my heart starts pounding uncontrollably faster. 

It has been increasingly more obvious that what society wants for me is different from what I want for myself. Society expects me to have a well-paid job, buy a house, and raise good kids. What I want in life are freedom and opportunities to explore and experience thorough traveling, reading and artistic creation. Something has to change.
