# Mememic Desires

People desire what others desire. Rene Girand called this memetic desire. He argued that most of our desires don’t come from within but are imitations of others’ desires.
It is a powerful theory. In fact, if you carefully examine all the common desires and think from the perspective of social imitation, you can see memetic desires everywhere. Even our most ‘original’ desires can be traced back to some long-forgotten seeds that were planted inside us from outside inputs, such as an idol we look up to, a story that inspired us, etc.

If we believe all our desires are social desires, it is actually quite a relief. It takes the pressure off from trying to be original and force an answer out of our heart to the question of what I want. In a way, it shows that outside stimulus is important. The more exposure you have to outside desires, the more options you can consider when designing your own life. This is why exploration is important and why some, such as David Epstein, as discussed in his book Range, believe that generalization at the early stage helps people succeed. 

When people feel disconnected from their desires, it is usually less because they copy the desires from others, but more because they jump to the chase without properly examining and thinking through whether those desires and the process to achieve those desires align with their values, purpose, and long-term goals. Smart people are not any less prone to these mistakes, but especially so. Most smart people are good at learning and can figure out a path once they set their minds on a certain goal. With their past track record of success and continued success as a go-getter, the behaviors of ‘chasing’ only get reinforced. What most of them don’t get to spend time practicing, however, is the vision. As a result, a lot of smart people lack in skills to look beyond the immediate horizon and evaluate whether a goal is worth chasing in the first place.

In a way, some ‘dumb’ people are blessed with the wisdom of life. A lot of them have faced plentiful failures in their earlier lives and have much less baggage to carry. They also have less interest in copying others’ desires blindly because they know if they work on the exact same things as many ‘smart’ people do, they won’t do it as well. Two things can happen from here. Many of them give up because they stop believing in their ability to succeed. A few of them, however, start looking for ways to do things differently. They strategize when deciding what goals to go after and innovate when planning for a path to get there. In fact, a lot of successful have stories of being ‘disadvantaged’ one way or another at the earlier stage of their lives. Disadvantaged in raw strength, they learn to be skillful in making the right decisions and navigating efficiently. To me, that is what real smartness looks like.
