# Strategic Thinking

Society nowadays rewards strategic thinking much more than most people realize. In a way, this is what leadership boils down to. You don’t have to be a leader in harnessing this ability, though. It plays a key role in the outcome no matter what you do and where you are in your life and career. 

Strategic thinking dictates what you decide to do and how you do it. When deciding what to do, most people jump on the most convenient option that is usually right in front of them. They don’t think through alternatives or the long-term impacts. It is easy to justify a decision when it has some certain upside. You know you will not ruin your life as long as you avoid the obviously wrong path and pay adequate attention to the downside. However, most people dismiss the comparison of upside with downside across various alternatives and over different horizons, especially a longer horizon.

While some people try to do this when making big decisions like choosing what to study and where to work, most fail to do this right. It takes trial and error to explore and come up with an optimal decision. While a lot of us a ‘hard workers’ in execution, we are ‘lazy’ in thinking through our options when making a decision. And even worse, we are not even considering alternatives when making small decisions in our daily life. None of them will cause a crack immediately. But the impact of sub-optimal decisions compounds over time.

While making a decision is important, implementing the idea is equally so. Again, to do it right, one needs to be strategic. You need to be strategic about incremental goals and make sure you get the priority right at each step. You need to be strategic about planning and make sure you have the right sequence of execution. You need to be strategic about when to lean on your work for feedback and advice and when to buckle down and do the work. It is unlikely you will get all these right the first time, so you also need to be strategic about when to keep pushing and when to take a pause and re-evaluate.
