# 1984
1984 is a book many refer to as a cautionary tale against a totalitarian regime, ironically in both a backward and forward-looking way. It is scary, not the least because of its exaggerated depiction of a living hell where one's mind is no longer allowed to be its own, but because it can very well be true.

To me, the cringeworthy part is how precisely it deconstructs society-level hypnosis. The freedom of actions comes from the freedom of thoughts. Policing the thoughts encompasses the propaganda to brainwash and shield people from exposure to the information, and even more effectively, the deprivation of the time and tools for people to think. Time alone is the space we need to tune in to our intuition and explore inside, and writing is how we develop our reasoning and form our thesis of the world. By enforcing a community lifestyle and an expressionless language system and writing style, this imagined land effectively quells people's thirst to even question their reality and be curious about the alternatives.

In many ways, people in today's free societies are doing the same harm to themselves through 'self-policing'. They think they are making free choices, but they are not. Busy with mundane tasks and distractions, most but few are unable and unwilling and devote time and cultivate original thinking that can stand the test of time. With thoughts that are borrowed opinions from newspapers and social media, most of them end up thinking what politicians and the big companies want them to think and are not aware of their roles in helping those in power become more powerful.

Winston rediscovers his ability to think through the time he steals and a diary to write. Despite swimming against the tides swallowed by it eventually, he at least briefly touches his soul by holding on to those rare moments when his instincts as a human are still alive. It is a hopeful tale, after all.
