## Happiness

What is happiness? It often correlates with feeling peace. You want to be in peace with reality, with who you are, and with everything and everyone around you.

And we feel peace when we are in control. Think about a scenario when you are not happy. It probably has something to do with losing control. You might feel anxious about a project because you have little control over the outcome. You might feel worried about your finance because you are uncertain about your future cash flow. You might feel agitated when some task is thrown at you unexpectedly because now you lose control of your schedule.

It is important to differentiate what is truly out of our control and what we think is out of our control. Things that happened in the past fall into the first category. That’s why it is important not to live in the past because there is little we can do about it. We also cannot control the outcomes most time. That’s why it is important to manage the expectation.

In Buddhism, one is taught to let go of desire. Desire is one major root cause of a lot of the sufferings. No desire means not wanting anything, which is another way of saying having no expectation. However, sometimes having no desire might be harder than satisfying the desire. Today’s technology makes it a million times easier for us to realize many of our desires, whether they are for our career, family, or leisure purpose. Trying to resist the desire might make you even more unhappy because you also cannot control your thoughts. Meditation helps but does not cure. We are not Buddha. That’s why it is more realistic for us to accept our desires and work on managing our expectations rather than trying to control our thoughts and having no desires.

But then there are things that are in our control but get misclassified into the first category. Most of these are related to the ‘inputs’ we put in when doing certain things. For example, are you using the right strategy? Are you setting the right goal? Are you putting in enough hours? Sometimes we think some skills are innate and cannot be built. The truth is, most of them are not. Maybe some feel more natural to certain people and are ‘easier’ to be developed in those cases. But there is no way you cannot improve it. It is a matter of having the right ingredients and the process to build them. But again, whether you can actually master the skills and whether they will help drive the outcome are things that are outside your control. What you can control is the process of building those skills and moving forward in the direction you want.
