# Innovation

Are the Chinese less innovative? Yes and no. Back in time, the ancient Chinese contributed to many significant inventions. They led the innovation in many fields, starting from the 1st century BC to the medieval age. The most known examples include Greatest Four Inventions, namely, papermaking, printing, gunpowder, and the compass, as summarized in the modern-day Chinese history book.

However, today's China seems to be less innovative than it used to be. Despite making a successful come back on the world stage and investing heavily in technological development, China is still known as the "world factory" rather than an innovation hub. As a result, people recognize things "made in China" but not "created in China." Even worse, many still think of China as adept in adopting and adapting but unable to truly push the boundary of cutting-edge technology.
Are the modern-day Chinese less innovative? In a way, yes. It is not hard to understand why. China was in the phase of catching up. They looked up to those ahead tried to do what they were doing. You are not trying to be different. You want to be just like them.

However, this is no longer the case. China has not just caught up but is ahead of most of its peers, depending on what metrics you focus on. The country has clearly shown its ambition to be the world leader and rule-maker of the future. To lead is not to follow. The leader creates the vision and sets the trend. The Chinese know that. And that's why the Chinese government has poured tons of resources into areas such as AI, blockchains, AR/VR, etc., and tried to rebuild the image of the country as an innovator.

However, it will likely take some time for innovation to become the driving force of China's growth. Innovation needs to be embraced as a core value by society, companies, and individuals for that to happen. And this is not where China is at right now. In order to innovate, one has to feel safe to make mistakes and fail. However, while people are encouraged to innovate in China, they are discouraged from failing. You are seen as incapable and are no longer trusted when you fail. While in the US, people can dust off failures quickly in that they are given the resource to try again. Kids in the US get compliments for trying rather than succeeding. In Silicon Valley, investors don't shy away from people who keep failing as long as they demonstrate the ability to learn and grow from their past experiences. Some investors love founders who can fail fast and keep hustling. In other words, there is a whole infrastructure around failing. The environment will pull you up when you fail, and you only need to succeed once. The tremendous upside and limited downside provide huge incentives for innovation as a result. While in China, the situation is almost the opposite. The possibility of losing your credits once you fail means not many people dare to do unprecedented and risky things. Thus most people end up being a rule-follower, a much more reliable way to get rewarded.
