# Be a Creator

We consume more things than we probably realize. We consume not just goods but also information and knowledge. When we consume things, someone else gets paid to create those things. So the more you create on a net basis, the more you get rewarded. And the higher up you are in the creative chain, the more leverage you have to create.

Technology makes it a lot easier for people to create now. The form is no longer limited to physical goods. It can be service or information. Being a creator is the ultimate way to create wealth. Yet, even with all these luring traits, most of us end up consuming on a net basis rather than creating.

Creating entails imagination and clarity. To gain clarity, you need to process information beyond surface values, see things others do not see and draw connections others dismiss. You don't have to come up with brand new ideas all the time. But you have to form your convictions and be willing to stand behind them. You also cannot rely on momentum to move forward. Instead, you have to navigate intentionally and know what you are doing every step of the way.

Creating is an active activity. In contrast, consumption is a passive activity hence much easier. Think about the difference between listening to speeches vs. giving one. As long as you have an above-average level of attention span, you can probably do the previous activity for hours. But when giving a speech, even 5 mins is enough to make you sweat. Similarly, reading is a form of consumption. You are consuming information rather than generating one. That's why reading does not necessarily translate to growth. You won't get rewarded for reading and learning unless you can apply what you read to real-world use cases and generate values.

The higher up you are in the creative chain, the more leverage you have. But being in that position demands a lot of mental power. When you are low in the chain, you generate values by implementing other people's ideas. You might be busy. But you don't need to think much. To create more value, you have to move up the chain. You have to be close to the source of creativity. That is where you can steer projects, push boundaries and create new capacity. And this is also where how well you think plays a more critical role than how much you work. In essence, the key to creativity is thinking. People who think correctly get rewarded a lot for that, rightfully so.
