# Klara and the Sun

One of the latest books I read is Klara and Sun, a novel written by Nobel Literature laureate Kazuo Ishiguro. 

I haven’t read a novel for years, not because I don’t like them, but because of its effect on my thinking. I actually enjoy the process of reading fiction very much. I like how good fiction can transcend me to a different universe where the only limitation is our imagination. As a kid, one of my favorite activities during summer break was to go to a bookstore and spend a whole afternoon there reading different kinds of fiction. Up to this day, I can still visualize the corner I liked to hide in, how much the staff did not like me to sit on the floor, and how I had to keep an eye on her moves so that I could get out of the floor in time when she came to check. However, this enticing feature also lets me stay away from them as I get attuned to its effect. A novel can leave my head spinning in an imaginary land and draw my attention away from real-life problems for days. As if eating ice cream, the process is great, but the feeling afterward is not so much.

I started reading the book largely because I was so tired of thinking about all the catastrophic events unfolding in Ukraine right now and wanted some refreshers. The book did, in the end, take my mind off the ongoing sadness from the Russian/Ukraine war, but it got me to start thinking about other dystopian possibilities we might have to end up facing at some point.

The most disturbing fact from the book is the complicated relationship between humans and machines. The story is told from the perspective of an AF (artificial friend), Klara, an AI robot made to be of the company for children. By being an AI, Klara is intelligent almost by definition. More importantly, she is observant, sympathetic, kind, selfless, and essentially carries all the beautiful human traits one can desire. The author intentionally describes different scenes in an unnatural and algorithmic way to remind us that Klara is a robot. Even with that, one cannot help humanizing Klara and worrying about her destiny as if for a real human. 

What does that mean for AI technology? Ultimately Klara is just a machine. Even though she looks and thinks like a human, she does not have a life. But what does it mean to have a life? Is life defined by living organs and breath, or by our ability to think, feel, experience, rationalize and memorize? In a way, Klara is more human than many humans portrayed in the book. The reassuring thing is that we are probably still at least a century away from the reality described in the book. What distinguishes Klara from the current cutting-edge AI is that Klara can both process facts and contextualize them. What makes her human is her ability to understand emotions and feelings. Real-life AI may never reach that level of intelligence.

The division of the society delineated in the book is also relevant to what we are experiencing right now. In the book, those who benefit from the advancement in AI technology survive and thrive, and those whose jobs get replaced by AI become the underclass. In a way, this is what we are going through right now in the real world as the wealth gap widens and polarization rises. This gap also gets passed on through generations, both in the book and the real world. In the book, those ‘lifted’ children get to go to college, fulfill their potential and have a successful life, while those who did not go through the genetic editing process become the outcast. Similarly, in the real world, at least in the US, we see a strong correlation between the environment a child gets raised in with the final ‘success’ of his life, whatever measure you want to use. The only difference is that this process of division seems to occur quite abruptly in the book with binary outcomes. The real-world experience may be more gradual and subtle, nevertheless similar at its core.

With all these thinkings, the question is, what should I do about them? That is what bothers me when reading fiction. It does not help me draw actionable conclusions. The book intends to raise awareness around the potential ethical issues related to technology advancement. But one should also know that being too concerned about the downside risk before fully engaging with the upside potential can also lead to decision paralysis and de-motivate us from moving forward and innovating.

