# Say No

The downside of being boundlessly curious is the anxiety from knowing one can not explore everything.

The path to being above average entails saying yes to every possible opportunity. But to move further beyond, one must learn to say no. Excellence is not defined by how many subjects you have explored, but how deep you go in one direction, usually at the cost of breadth.

Knowing when and how to say no is not straightforward. You are not just trying to eliminate ill-fitting choices but also those that are not good enough. A binary value proposition to judge positive or negative returns may no longer be sufficient. Instead, a more measured estimation of reward relative to the cost might be needed, and one has to internalize the concept of opportunity cost to integrate this new yardstick.

However, difficulties arise when there is no clear answer to what kind of value an option might add to your life eventually. It is easy to estimate opportunity cost over a short horizon, but as the horizon grows, the accuracy of our mental calculation becomes exponentially worse. We can never be certain whether we are just giving up stones or true gems, so understandably, we can feel anxious and overwhelmed when first starting to say so.

What makes it even harder is the mental inertia we need to fight against, considering that it is probably a 'yes' mindset that leads us to where we are today. Without any conscious attempt to resist the temptation of saying yes to every greeting opportunity, we can easily fall back into the trap of endless exploration and derail from the path the mastery.

The decisions of 'no' come at different levels. Personally, as I am getting more comfortable saying no to traveling and socializing to focus more on developing my crafts as a writer and as a portfolio manager, I will also need to say no to opportunities along these two paths. Each identity inherits an ocean of knowledge worth exploring, and I will certainly run out of time before choices if I cannot say any more often.

Even so, blessed are the freedom and curiosity of mind. Remember to cherish the abundance of choices while advancing towards a deeper level of fulfillment through the arts of saying no.
